thank you
so if we can start just give us your
full name and kind of your role or
self-described role
I know you're a YouTuber but anything
else that adds on to that as well so uh
my name is Muhammad hijab and um in
addition to being a YouTuber as you've
mentioned I also do like lecturing
um so I do that in our own Institute in
the UK in London called the sapiens
Institute and also on various other
places for instance
um I'm Affiliated to University in
America called Mishka University which
I'm also doing part-time lecturing for
so um that's what I do
great thank you for that
um so we'll move on to your platform
you've got I think over 700 000 YouTube
subscribers now what kind of made you
start on YouTube and the kind of what
was the space that you were trying to
infiltrate with that
well I mean I think it was an organic
process
um I was speaking to people from all
different kind of walks of life
spoken to almost ever a representative
from every world religion I've spoken to
people from all kinds of sexual
background and and these kinds of things
and basically we have discussions in
debates
um some of which have been with high you
know notable individuals notorious
individuals some of which have been with
the general public and to be honest with
you it's picked up traction and that's
all it's been really
did you expect to make such an impact
with your Channel
yeah I did because
um I knew what kind of thing we had to
offer and when you know what you have to
offer in fact um
you know in terms of
you for example the content that we're
providing I knew that it was going to go
far and wide especially in Muslim
communities because it's Cutting Edge
information which uh well I've tried to
at least synthesize between secular
knowledge
because I've got a background in like
some secular fields and also religious
knowledge which I've also got a
background in academic background in so
I knew that when you put these two
things together
that people will benefit from that
and so that's what happened and we say
alhamdulillah which is phrase to God for
that
great and we'll move on you mentioned
that you have some influential figures
and undertake being one of them you were
one of the first that undertake came on
your podcast and you spoke about his
conversion to Islam what was the
intention of having him you know his
reputation you know he's a noticeable
figure so what did you want to get from
him um when you decided to give him a
platform on your YouTube channel before
I um we arranged actually he wasn't a
Muslim just yet and so you know when I
first decided to have a conversation
with him
it was going to be more if you like
inquisitive or even interrogative based
on some of the things that he said in
the past some of the inconsistencies
that I've seen in some of the thing you
know prescriptions and descriptions or
diagnoses and so on but because he
turned Muslim
in our faith we have a belief that when
someone becomes Muslim their spiritual
slate is wiped clean
so it ended up being much more friendly
much more conciliatory much more
harmonious and that is because we
believe everybody has a chance to amend
for their ways and anyone can have a
chance for a second chance
uh and so he clarified even
notwithstanding that he did clarify some
of the things that were most problematic
uh
you know in his output in the past
whether people will be convinced with
that is is a question I personally was
convinced with that I met him personally
I saw him in private and he seemed to me
like an authentic figure so now that
he's become a Muslim person I do believe
that
um things will change even more but
that's yet to be seen
okay
I touched a bit or not and that
forgiveness is a massive part of when
you do convert you have that sleep right
click wide claim clean so clean some
people might not accept that where as
his previous life he was living a very
Haram lifestyle fast cars with it being
arrogant about that and trying to
promote his lifestyle to other people
does that mean that all of that should
be forgotten now
I mean fast cars are not Haram I mean
although if you use the money in terms
of like the arrogance of his lifestyle
yeah I'm just showing off as well Sam's
clarifying the point I mean certainly
but I I think that look there are two
things you you touch upon a good point
which is that your spiritual slate is
wiped clean as for those things which
relate to the rights of people
uh clearly that's not wiped clean and
that's something although from God can
forgive you for it the people don't
necessarily
um need to forgive you for that and so
certainly there is work still to be done
it doesn't mean just because he has
become Muslim that everything that he
gets a get out of jail free card no pun
intended I mean this is obviously
because he's in prison but the point I'm
making is that yeah I mean I'm saying
that
um he should uh certainly if there's
anything that he's done in the past or
continues to have we as Muslim people
like for example as you mentioned
casinos or
um and all those things that should be
uh got on a way that should be gotten
rid of but having said that I haven't
spoken to him it seems like he's in the
process of doing that if not has done
that already especially with for example
the webcam uh business I've spoken to
him and his team and they've told me
that that's a thing of the past so as I
said Islam is a religion which attempts
to rectify
The Human Condition and so since he's
new to it I think it's only fair as a
Muslim Community that will give him time
to make these appropriate changes and I
think that's what he's doing
and given that you and and I would say
have now well he now has uh very young
Muslim predominantly male following does
that not concern you the Tater fact that
has had on the wider Community outside
of the Muslim Community maybe in schools
and things people educating on how
misogyny is not to be glamorized and
people shouldn't talk about women in
that way are you worried about the
association now that he has converted to
Islam that people will try to draw a
narrative out of that
what was the first thing you mentioned
about uh Muslim male followers
I I would say that he now has gained
quite a few because of his conversion to
Islam and yours you're following is you
would say like quite predominantly
um young Muslim guys yeah
there's both of you have similar
followings and similar power and
influence within that do you worry that
the Tater fact will carry on and your
followers will see that and think oh
okay so he's a friend of Tates he's
supporting him in some way by having him
on his platform it must be mean that say
in all of his past views
could be okay because they might not
have heard the context that you're
speaking of now I've met him in person
et cetera Etc
you've touched upon many different
points there I mean depending on my
personal following depending on what
platform we're talking about like
because I've got access to my own
demographics there are some platforms
which I've got almost an even I've got
60 40 split for example
so I don't know if it is predominant in
that sense it's a majority but uh it's
it's not as much as people maybe think
it is from the one from the one side and
I think you'll be surprised to know that
a lot of uh females actually follow
Andrew Tate as well and once again
um don't think it says this you know
disproportionate as many people think or
asymmetrical as people think it is
um in regards to your comments about
misogyny I don't know what the
definition of misogyny that we're
employing here is obviously the
dictionary definition of a misogyny is
the hatred of women but that takes
different forms depending on what
ideological
um kind of background you're coming from
if someone comes from a feminist
perspective once again misogyny will
have a different
um flavor even within feminism there's
discussion second wave third wave in
particular queer Theory lgbtq Theory and
so what is a woman in fact is a question
because then second we're feminists like
Jermaine gray and others would differ
for example with third wave feminists on
who the subject of misogyny even is in
the first place so these are important
things to unpack before we because you
know these are terms that require kind
of a treatment before before something
is you know a label is put on them
that's the first thing I would say the
second thing is
in regards to his effects I think that
his effect was preceded in part or in
full by a feeling in this country in
particular in the United Kingdom
by men and women but more so men that
feminism itself has gone too far and
there has been a study that has recently
fresh freshly been
carried and I think it was by ipsos in
fact it was by ipsos
which says that 51
of gen z uh or 53 of gen Z and 51 of
Millennials males who think that
feminism is now discriminating against
men
think that feminism has gone too far for
example
um this is a study that is not of the
Muslim Community or the Jewish Community
to any other specific even 41 of females
in that study which was conducted in the
University of King's College London said
the same thing this is actually quite
astonishing considering the fact that
we're talking about Andrew Tate because
Andrew Tay and his likes or the red pill
movement or whatever it is could be said
to be somewhat of a corrective to what
many in this country see has gone wrong
not just in this country but throughout
the Western World and maybe even
throughout the world
at large which is that feminism is now
starting to discriminate against men
according to these studies that I've
cited so Andrew Tay is is not the co I
would say it's very difficult to make
the case that Andrew Tay is the cause of
this entire phenomena some some studies
would have to be produced in order for
us to make such a wild uh claim
instead I would say that this phenomena
has been kind of festering bubbling in
the background for many years ever since
the 80s and 90s and Andrew Tate
represents what many people already
think about the state of gender
relations in the western world today
and that was based on a study and you
can appreciate that not everyone thinks
in that way I would say maybe a lot of
people might disagree to those people
who are then maybe directly affected by
misogyny and by these sayings do we
still think that everyone should think
in that way and why I are you promoting
that way of thinking by suggesting that
it doesn't exist
Ence
those studies and people that support
that this idea that feminism doesn't
exist you have something that you've
spoke about on your channel and Tate I
would say
um kind of as you said would kind of it
would sit under the red pill ideology
those views being out there and to
public like to
um huge follower accounts putting on
platforms where young people are
watching more than they will go down to
their local Imam or have these
conversations is that then just like
putting that view on them
well first of all I mean you said that
feminism many people say feminism
doesn't exist I was not saying that the
study said that the study stated that
feminine feminism has gone too far and
that now it's starting to discriminate
against men is what uh gen Z and it was
a study that was done recently this is
in last week it was published
um and it was actually made into kind of
newspaper articles you can see in a
telegraph for example had an article on
it so that's one um thing the other
thing is as I say the reason why it's
important to Define what exactly what we
mean by misogyny is because for example
conservative Muslims Jewish people
um for example Christian people some
conservative Christians with some
difference of course and within those
religions there is difference as well
they will consider for example a
differentiation when it comes to gender
roles that the man has certain roles
that the woman doesn't that there are
some things that a man should do all the
responsibilities that a woman shouldn't
have and to to modern day feminists
opponents that could be considered to be
a form of discrimination so when you
mention the Imam the thing is according
to many of the feminist readings that
I've read I've written a book on
feminism called fifth wave feminism
um that I've read on an academic level I
believe that if people were to be
exposed to the biblical verses for
example in Leviticus chapter 21 where
it's talking about what's what what the
punishment should be in fact the Bible
talks about death penalty being imposed
on someone who's who's done sexual
relations or even the Quran doesn't
mention a death penalty here but it does
mention the immorality of the sexual act
itself in chapter 7 verse 81 for example
and these are things that if someone
were to go to their local Rabbi or local
priest or the local Imam that they would
for example on these issues
on the lgbtq issues on the on the gender
rights issues or roles and
responsibilities may offer a response
not too dissimilar from that which
Andrew take himself would bring forth
and I would even take it one step
further and say that
you'll be surprised at the amount of
Muslim women for example who believe in
these things I mean for example there
was a I think it's called the um
the ICM and this was in 2016 in fact the
ICM conducted a survey on Muslim people
on for example homosexuality and you'll
be surprised because Andrew Tay I've
looked at his scoured his record have
not seen anything about homosexuality in
particular where he's going as far as
Muslim people have gone actually men and
women the only 13 percent of Muslim
people in this country believe that
homosexuality should even be legal men
and women so the point is these are
anti-normative views and these
anti-normative views whether Andrew Tay
is there or not would have been there
already the question is are we as the
Muslim people as or the Jewish people or
Christian people or others are we
allowed to have those views if we
express those views would we be now you
know censored would be punished is there
should there be a punishment for having
that view because if the suggestion is
that there should be a punishment for
that then I would suggest that pluralism
multiculturalism and even liberalism
itself has failed because the idea of
pluralism is that you have these
individuals in society and groups that
have equal ability to express themselves
and if you want to put the liberal hand
principle on it so long as they don't
harm anybody else so me believing for
example that a man and a woman should
have equality of value but not
identicality in roles
me believing in this is uh something
which my faith tells me a majority of
Muslim people to believe in that
majority of Jewish people uh Orthodox
Jewish for example believe in something
like that
and and so the question is can I can I
now have this belief really or must I be
censored must I now be and that's really
where the question is today because woke
ideology and and the left have taken
this too far and privileged the rights
of some people over the rights of others
and I think that's where the that's
where the discussion really is
and in terms of that like people having
different opinions you'd say normative
uh to people having a different
alternative view on things
the algorithm will favor people who have
those controversial views they will get
more likes they will get more
dealerships because people are
interested in what they're saying but do
you think that people are being
questioned enough on or like
are they being questioned enough on
their views for example
um your podcast with take you went
through a lot of things but we we didn't
and you have mentioned there that you
had a chat like away from the podcast on
on those um Haram things that he was
doing and whether he is repenting those
and whether he will make those changes
is that something you see in his future
now
now that he has converted and maybe had
a bit more education around Quran
yeah I mean I think it's I hope so I
mean these are things that the future is
something I can't really speculate on
but I think the the question I I tried
to pose to you is as follows is that now
we have the different groups in the
United Kingdom right you have
homosexuals um lgbtq Society of Muslims
you have uh uh Christians and there's an
overlap between these groups it's not
like this is only one or the other
there's clearly an overlap between those
groups as well
now what I'm saying is I personally
believe what's happening in mainstream
media because you talk about the
algorithm now social media are people
like myself you know uh who you know
don't have the financial backing or only
have a camera to my disposal and you
know people to to click subscribe and
like and stuff like that you know
social media is one of the only ways
that for example Muslim people and
others can get a voice you know to the
mainstream public but the mainstream
media is propagating an entirely
different type of discourse which I
believe is exclusionary to uh
conservative Jewish conservative Muslims
you want to call them that Orthodox
Muslims and so on and so the question is
can we can we be allowed to say what we
want without reprisal or without being
called these names which would have an
impact on our lives and livelihoods
which will have an impact on our job uh
you know prospects and employability or
lack thereof I think we're finding that
there's uh now Draconian or coercive
methods sometimes it can be even worse
than this which have stopped people from
having that Liberty and this is where
the problem is
if the power doesn't lie with us the
power lies with the hegemonic colonial
power
which happens to be the United States of
America and its extensions uh and you
know Western Europe
who are propagating an entirely
different message and the message is uh
basically left-wing for the most part
and you know and if you don't conform to
that you're attacked so I don't know if
it's because the thing is we're talking
about Andrew Tate for example but we
haven't even outlined exactly what views
that we disagree with here like it's all
about misogyny we said it depends on how
you define misogyny but what exactly are
the views that he holds so it can be a
bit more Haram things okay fine we agree
those had on the webcam and all that
kind of the those things fine for the
sake of argument but apart from that his
social views what exactly do you find
most Troublesome about his views for
example because well it's not for me
personally to speak when I was a
journalist but reportedly he thinks that
men are the
um
English is my second language
but basically that men are higher than
women I'm trying to in English I don't
know I'm Welsh language I don't know
that's a word or higher or have have
more respect should get more respect on
more power than women I think he's made
a claim that men own women I'm pretty
sure yeah I mean I did clarify that one
with him and he he did say that he
didn't mean it in those terms so putting
that one to the side as well you can see
yeah it's provocative language which is
why I asked him about it on my podcast
with him so he clarified that one now so
let's for the sake of arguments say that
because he's been asked about that
multiple times and he said that I don't
mean it like that so
that's one thing what else are we
talking about here and I always talk
about higher what men are higher than
women in what regard and what in
physical strength for example or in what
sense this is just
what he is
thought to have done because of the way
that he has spoken about women
so it could the way that he speaks about
women has been reported as speaking down
to women not um respecting women and
that you know people have been directly
affected or claimed to have
have sort of been been discriminated
against because of their gender because
of the effect that he has had on I get
what you're saying but with respect to
you you're doing a good job by the way I
don't want to put you on this one I mean
but I'm just what I'm saying is with
respect to you you still haven't really
given me at like a a strong enough
quotation of what he has said that
really you know you disagree with all
that is disagreeable in the first place
let's say like you say that men is
higher than women I don't know if I come
across that exact quote but let's say
for the sake of argument he says
something like that it would need to be
contextualized does he mean it for
example in a sense of finances that men
have more money than women more
generally speaking or that they have
more physical strength we'd need to look
at what he said but what I'm saying is
that a lot of what he says
the majority of the world agrees with
I mean this is what I'm saying for
example in terms of without context
yeah no but what I'm saying is like for
example on the issue of traditional
families and stuff go to Africa
or go to
um Asia or go to and ask them what they
think the family should look like
and in fact get a quotation of Andrew
Tay word for word about his views on
family and the average feminist view on
family or second with feminist and
present both transcripts to the average
Nigerian and see what he has to say
you know the reason why Andrew Tate is
picking up traction is because he is
just going
he's going with the tide
in the sense that he is he is saying
what the majority of the world is saying
but the West has has forgotten that that
is really why he's become so popular but
this is not
new stuff what he's saying he's talking
about women being for example Homemakers
or mothers of children or something like
that you know I mean people find it that
offensive people find this offensive
nowadays uh Zara if I were to say to you
for example Zara like
I personally believe that you know you
should be at home and you know you
should be married to somebody you know
just cut out yeah I was saying that if I
were to say to you I I think the best
role for you is in the house raising
children and so on
to what extent do you find that
offensive
if I said the best role I can't comment
because I'm not the one yeah so no but I
get what I'm saying but do you see the
point we would agree that many women
would find that if I went to ITV Studios
right and I the women that are there
career women and I said listen I think I
want to make a speech and this and that
and I said look I personally believe
that the best thing for women here in
this thing is that they stay at home and
raise their children uh you know and
look after them because this career is
not going to give them the kind of
happiness that they think is going to
give them
do you not feel like in an average place
maybe in ITV Studios or something like
that that would be seen as offensive to
many women
in this country I feel like in in the
same in the same way that you say that a
lot of people would agree with the the
alternative view that will be a
different response across the board
because not everyone has the same views
no I appreciate that I'm saying that if
you go to Nigeria
well that again yeah what I'm saying is
if you go to the Orthodox Jewish
community and I make the statement in a
synagogue I'm pretty sure I'd get a
response rate which would be completely
different from ITV Studios so what I'm
saying is it's all contextual
it's yeah so he represents is some of
his traditional views are are actually
the majority of you in the world I would
say
so the point is is it's difficult to
when someone says misogyny and stuff
like that we really need to know what
they're talking about here because if
they mean that they want to impose their
feministic world view which is that men
have exactly the same roles and like in
gozie says in the feminist Manifesto she
says that every the exact same rights
and exact same responsibilities and she
gave one example one exception she says
breastfeeding is the exception because
it's operationally impossible for for
romantic breastfeed
I mean most of the world doesn't agree
with this thing
and so if he says something like that
and they say if yeah yeah
oh sorry um just in the term of like
context of misogyny being different for
other people what would you say then if
there's a you know a follower of say who
might not have like be as well versed as
what misogyny means in different aspects
someone who just follows tape because
they like the person that he gives out
there
has no interest in learning about what
mythology is or hasn't just given it the
time of day to learn about what that is
and still kind of mimics his behavior or
his views
where done would you stand on that is it
just that they need to get that's a
theatrical performance I would stand on
it in the same way as I would see any
other theatrical performance you know as
an Entertainer at the end of the day
he's got you speaking about me about him
so that's clearly like you know whatever
he's done to some extent has worked
otherwise we wouldn't be having this
conversation uh and so the point is is
that it it's there to kind of catch
people's attention
most imams on many of the same issues
would have a view maybe many rabbis
would have a view many priests would
have of you similar if not identical to
Tates when it comes to the nuclear
family when it comes to gender roles
when it comes to so many of these
diagnoses
they would have the same view they don't
have the same Charisma as him they don't
have the same way of articulating
themselves as he does and as such
obviously he's going to get more
traction he's made what's mainstream in
the world more mainstream in the west
that's all he's done he said the same
things as you would hear in a Nigerian
man I don't know I keep bringing
Nigerians or Moroccan man I think you're
from Morocco originally something like
that right so a Moroccan man if he is
sitting drinking his tea he'd say the
same things on some of the issues
relating to the issue and if a feminist
want to see that Moroccan man that
Nigerian man you know or our forefathers
living in North Africa they would say
this guy is misogynist so I mean so when
this label is overused
it has no meaning anymore and so Andrew
Tate we need to know okay some of the
stuff is questionable and I agree but
some of the stuff that really
people have a problem with quite frankly
are the same things that the majority of
the world believes in
and so the controversy is only within
our Shores and within the Western World
it shouldn't be um we shouldn't really
necessarily think that that you know
this is something uh unremarkable he's
coming something remarkable this is
completely unremarkable some of the
stuff he's saying traditional family and
this kind of crisis of masculinity so
much so that as I've mentioned ibso says
that the majority of British people
think feminism has gone too fast
discriminating against men
gen Z and millennials so yeah I don't I
don't necessarily think that he's uh
a lot of the stuff of times I'm just
gonna go on to the next
if and also just to mention if this does
time out I'll just send an extra link so
we can carry on the conversations
because I don't want to miss anything
out
um but you mentioned there well labels
and from a lot of things that I've read
about you and you might not be too happy
about it but you're probably your name
will probably crop up with the terms
upright bro uh red pill and and things
like that what is your interpretation of
what those things mean and why do you
think that people are associating you
with those
I know there was one particular um
article that was written and the person
that was consulted was an individual who
I excommunicated from the religion of
Islam
because of his Aboriginal views so he
had a personal Vendetta against me and
he was consulted and all this is on the
public record and he made these labels
um so I don't I don't think it's their
prominent or widespread labels and not
least because obviously I've actually
done videos against red pill ideology uh
itself and I've I've called it very
strong language I think it was
abominable I use the word abominable
abhorrent or something like that and the
reason why I think that the red pill
ideology is abominable or abhorrent is
because of its decadence because of the
things that it calls for there isn't a
strong objectification of women for
example which we don't agree with the
kind of language that is recommended in
red pill manuals and books and so on for
us to use for example as men with women
it's not even language that majority of
the same men would use or allowed to be
used for their daughters or their
mothers
so I think that it's it's a reactionary
movement but at the same time it does
carry a lot of Truth and in my opinion
way more truth than a religion oh well
you can call that religion but and I
political ideology like feminism in
terms of its scientific backing it's uh
you know statistical backing and so on
having said that I do think it has some
very negative elements once again
um I've mentioned the decadence I
mentioned some of the things that go
against our vision of uh
a vision of a moral Society for instance
this idea of they say you can let your
wife go and you know have an open
relationship with her or stuff like that
well this idea this obsession with body
counts sorry to say about body count
sarcas and how many women a man sleeps
with these are things
um you know most I would say clearly is
that we believe in we do everything for
the sake of God you know we believe that
God is all-knowing all hearing all wise
and that the reasons why we act in a
certain way with our wives or with our
daughters or with anything else is
because we believe that God has
instructed us to do that red pill
doesn't have this religious impetus or
component at all
so there are so many aspects of red pill
ideology which contradict Islam
contradict
um what it means to be a good person in
the religion novel Islam and and
therefore we are opposed to those
aspects as well
um people labeling me as these things
after I've mentioned all that in
clear-cut fashion I think is a good
example
of how the narrative is attempted in or
people are trying to uh malign the
narrative in their favor really
so you do not identify with any of those
labels I want like Akron was kind of a
it's quite a modern word now that I've
really seen
what what's your interpretation of what
that means and kind of why you think
you're now
seen as well
as I mentioned I think it's only been
mentioned by like one obscure figure who
has a personal Vendetta with me on the
CNN article that was published and he
was consulted this particular individual
um IX communicated from the religion
novel Islam because on the basis of him
allegorizing stories of the Quran and
saying that these are not actually
things that happened so I said that for
me such a person is not a Muslim
um I'm allowed to have that opinion and
I do so he proceeded to you know smear
with me with these names and that's fine
I mean I consider him a disbelief he
considers me a right wing I think I
would rather take the right wing uh
label than the disbelievable anyway but
having said that I mean there are many
aspects of Islam and I've made another
video as a shorts actually one minute
video is a slam right wing or left wing
and what I said in that shorts is that
it's neither and we shouldn't think of
Islam in those terms for example part of
right-wing ideology
um as you may know is the immigration
policies many people are very much
opposed to immigration in right-wing
circles
whereas Islam is essentially a
Cosmopolitan religion it's actually the
most Multicultural religion in the face
of the planet
and so we don't have the same
citizen-centered approach
National nationalistic approach as many
people on the right have for instance
and on the left wing of course socially
were very far away from those things
that you know I've mentioned in this
interview relating to gender roles and
homosexuality and so on
and so Islam is neither left or right
wing and I believe that asking the
question of whether Islam is left or
right-wing itself has Colonial
undertones almost as if all morality
should be within the scope of left and
right wing constructions you know put
forward by the white man I personally
believe that such constructions are only
applicable to a very
you know select type of social reasoning
that is employed in the political
discourses in the west shouldn't be
generalized to you're either right-wing
or left wing or Centrist I'm neither of
those things or any of those things and
I don't think islamism either
we'll move on to
not just the whole script today and and
it's basically where do you see you and
Hope's relationship now in terms of
um for example if he came out and was
um able to do like like podcasts
anything like that again would you be
welcoming with him with open arms or is
that dependent on how he has chosen to
live his life at that point
I support Andrew tayton as much as he
supports Islam
or and I would say the same thing about
any human being on the face of the Earth
I support that person as much as they
support Islam or they believe in it or
they support it or they don't
discriminate against it and so if he
continues with the religion of Islam he
will find me as one of his supporters
the Quran actually mentions this
explicitly
well
that the Believers believing men and
women actually men and women explicitly
men and women both of them are allies of
one another and so we have a
relationship of allyship we have an
allyship with anybody who decides to
enter the religion of Islam or support
it so my relationship with Andrew Tate
so much as he is a member of my
community is one of support just as much
as had I been a member of the lgbtq
society or community
and
um Andrew Tate sorry to say have become
a homosexual I am sure that he would not
be discriminated against as a homosexual
by the lgbtq community that they would
welcome him with open arms and they may
even decide to forgive him for his if
you like prior sins according to their
worldview
so I don't I don't see that this is an
issue because there are multiple
subcultures in the United Kingdom
and there are multiple ways of being
communities and all of them have their
hierarchization or prioritization in
favor of their own belief system first
and foremost and their community in
addition to that so to answer your
question directly I would support Andrew
Tay in as much as he supports the
religion of Islam and that would mean in
any way possible uh legal PR perspective
or anything else and I would do the same
thing with any human being man or woman
or child on the face of the Earth so
that's great
um I know that we touched a bit on that
um that you it doesn't matter who
undertake was
um if that was an LGBT person a woman
that they would again be welcome with
open arms on your channel but do you
think that is a is the general view so
for example if Tate was a woman had done
it had lived the exact same lifestyle as
he was and had then converted to Islam
do you think that he would have been
welcomed in the same way there were
people like Sinead O'Connor who had
lived decadent lifestyles
um from our perspective who was not only
welcomed into Islam and the communities
um conservative communities
male-dominated ones but they were
actually even added into the list of
most influential Muslims on the earth
like for example from what I've seen
she's in the list of 500 most
influential Muslims and so the answer in
Shore is absolutely and there is
precedent for that
in terms of my own discussions as I
mentioned the very beginning of this
interview that
actually I have had discussions with
feminists and I've had discussions with
people who identify as transgender and
Muslim at the same time
which was actually very controversial in
my community when I did this but my
Mantra is that I will speak to anybody
I don't mind who it is and that is
because the religion novel Islam or The
Message of Islam should be one that we
could
promote or convey to anybody whoever
they are from whatever background so
this allegation that may have been
trying to put forward that well this is
he's getting some kind of preferential
treatment
is not only far away from the truth it's
actually a historical when you look at
the recent contemporary uh conversions
to Islam people becoming Muslim men and
women
so yes the answer is yes if it was a
woman if it was someone who's
transgender if it was anybody
uh whatever sexual orientation they may
have or whatever they are most welcome
to speak to us in a discussion format in
a non-interrogative way just like me and
you are having a discussion now
and if they become Muslims then yes the
same rule applies to them as well
skip it a bit
oh well
he comes out of jail given that that
happens and decides to revert back to
some of the Haram things that he was
doing
um and living like a non-islamic
lifestyle
what what would be your take on that
then
well I mean we believe that something is
done publicly it must be refuted
publicly and so uh I would say that at
that point after he has been given if
you like a probationary period uh that
the Muslim Community would need to
clarify that these things are not
something which Islam actually allows
uh whether or not uh Andrew Tate doesn't
or anybody else if Muhammad does it if
my friends do it if something is done
publicly it must be corrected publicly
and so
this is the general rule but with new
Muslims we have more of a compassionate
approach
and we have we give people time to make
the changes in their life
so you wouldn't speak out on that
um given a certain amount of time has
passed yeah I would I I I may depending
on the severity of the sin obviously
like we're talking about if something is
said which for example contradicts the
teachings of Islam that needs to be
corrected if something is done which is
one of the major sins and is done
publicly then that needs to be corrected
publicly this is the general rule it's
called um
so I would be happy to correct those
things
but after a process has been had and
I've got direct communication with
Andrew Tate many of the things that he's
accused of
I speak to him on WhatsApp well not
anymore for now but
you know and I ask him what he intended
by this and that and the point is is
simply
that I think that we need to give the
man time to make the changes and maybe
he comes out of prison
oh
um a changed man
he may have a completely different
parlance he may he may have a different
uh way of thinking because Islam would
change him if he followed it properly it
would change it would have to change him
Islam would change a lot of his
behaviors a lot of his even attitudes
and beliefs
there are even some beliefs that he
carries now which I'm not Islamic in in
the strictest sense and obviously that
needs time for him to realize that he
needs to align himself with the Islamic
teachings
and to take followers who might be
thinking about converting to Islam to
follow in in his
on his basically like life path and life
Journey
do you think that well for one do you
think that will happen do you think
there'll be an effect of people who are
non-islamic joining Islam
um and then do you think that their
intentions will be correct correct or
are they doing it just because they want
to be like tight
I can't judge someone's intention but uh
it's already happening and so people are
coming into Islam because of him I've
seen it happening yeah I'm not sure if
it's happening where you are but it's
certainly happening Where We Are and a
lot of them come and they become very
very religious
um and that's why I say I I believe
that's a force of good that in the sense
that he's a force of good in that sense
if they followed the Islamic teachings
they would realize where Andrew Tay
himself is following the Islamic
teachings and when he's not
um so Islam is a religion which is not
about following personalities except for
the personality of the Prophet Muhammad
and the rest of the prophets
we believe in that the ultimate guides
for Humanity are the prophets
the figures the protagonists in the
Quran
um then after that you've got the
companions of the prophet and so on but
certainly the prophets and so we believe
that if someone follows Islam they
should be trying to imitate the prophets
I mean if you consider all of the
metrics that Andrew Tate has
achieved I mean
the prophet Muhammad we would say has
retrieved no less than a million times
more than uh than him whether it be in
influence I mean we're talking about
Prophet Muhammad now a thousand four
hundred years whether it be in
demographic influence whether we're
talking about military prowess and
ability whether we're talking about
managing relationships who he has
managed nine relationships at one time
he was in a very hard kind of polygamist
marriage
with women that he took on took on not
to use and abuse but we would say he
took them on for strategic reasons As a
caretaker as a helper of society
and so we believe that the prophet
Muhammad is is the ultimate role model
for those individuals who want to follow
Andrew Tate therefore uh from the Muslim
Community otherwise I would actually say
that this is the wrong kind of move
instead one should be following the
Prophet Muhammad
who Andrew Tate himself is now trying to
follow I mean why would you follow
someone who is following someone else
for his guidance why not just follow the
ultimate source of the guidance or let's
just say the ultimate source of
the ultimate role model which is the
prophet Muhammad who Andrew himself
recognizes is a greater person than he
is in every respect
so I would say no you should follow the
Prophet Muhammad
but you can't deny the power of
influence like it it just gets people
like everyone's talking about them
everyone wants to watch them they are
seen as kind of these icons within like
modern society is that then wrong then
that you've
um would I can always people as role
models other people who are people who
aren't
um Prophets
is that healthy is that a healthy thing
to think of someone as a role model we
have a saying from one of the companions
the prophet which says that if you want
to follow someone his name is he said if
you want to follow someone
follow someone who has died because the
the living one has not yet passed the
tribulations of life
and the point is if I would always
advise someone who's completed the tests
and done everything
is a better person to follow than
someone who's still being tested we
don't know what Andrew Tate is going to
do in the next five years he might
apostate from the religion of Islam he
may become a feminist he may be put in
Anything Can Happen uh so all I'm saying
is following such a person would would
bring about a series of problems
um and so instead we would say to Muslim
people in particular to follow the
prophet Muhammad men and women men and
women as well actually to follow the
prophet Muhammad so yes it does bring
about problems when you follow anyone
who's living from our perspective but
then again we would say Andrew Tate
is an individual who is manifesting a
series of
attributes which men
have been deprived of seeing in and
having role model to them
um gallantness courageousness
um our great articulation he embodies a
lot of what is could be seen classically
as like you know the intellectual
Warrior type intellectual because he's
clever in some aspects and he can play
chess and these kinds of things but at
the same time you can put up a good
fight and that in many ways that's what
a man wants to be he wants to be an
intellectual Warrior and so from those
angles looking at Andrew Tate or anybody
else who has these set of
characteristics for inspiration I don't
think is an unhealthy thing for people
to do so long as they're able to sieve
that out from all the things which are
more problematic in his personality
opinions of people without things that
they're called but their core beliefs as
human beings to um
is it wrong to be drawing narratives I.E
like that if someone is misogynistic
they're trying to justify that with
words of the Quran
but as I've mentioned before misogyny
itself is a buzzword that requires
definition so okay so okay and maybe not
misogyny but anything
um
any problematic views yeah and that's an
interpretation right yeah I mean some
problematic goes for different people
we're living in an age where in the post
and post Enlightenment period in the
Western World we have a phenomena
where people now are influenced by red
pill ideology they're beautiful they're
influenced by feminism liberalism and so
many other things and they don't want to
admit their influence of these things
but they certainly are influenced men
women and children okay and when they
are for example subscription there are
subscribers let's say to a religious
Faith group like Islam Muslim people
sometimes you can have the phenomena of
trying to superimpose what is referred
to in her music says I see Jesus to put
words into the Quran or try and find
things from the Quran in order to
justify their positions this is
problematic we would say it's a
hermeneutical problem
um and so to answer your question
directly yes I think it is a thing a
phenomenon that's happening people try
and justify their positions by quoting
verses of the Quran cherry picking them
and leaving other things out
um and that does happen in the field of
gender as well men and women do it and
people that are influenced by feminism
or red pill or whatever other ideology
do it as well what we must do if we're
true Muslims is go to the Quran and the
holy texts and let it speak for itself
try not to be influenced by anything
else try and genuinely let it speak for
itself and not try and have
uh basically you know an entitlement
schema that allows us to take that which
benefits us
and leave off that which doesn't
conduct all my questions thank you for
answering so honestly
um you're welcome love it